Hey, you're welcome to
Setting Up a GitHub Repo, which is short for repository. In this video, we're going to be creating a
online repository for your project. GitHub provides
free public hosting for you. We'll use a default
UnrealEngine .gitignore file, rather than writing it ourselves from scratche now.
We'll then clone what we made on the web, down to our local machine,
and, as I said, I will show you how to make a readme.md
file with something called markdown. Now, that is a simple language
that's like an HTML simplification, and there's a link there you could
follow to find out more about markdown. So, by the end of the video what we will have is, we will have an
online repository like this that will be part of
in my case, a series which is one per section, and we'll have some
commits online, which will match what we have locally here. So, we basically have an
online backup of our repository, and this allows us to share our code with other students.
So, let's dive in and see how this is done!
So, hopefully by now you've been using SourceTree or similar, to good effect.
But we've only so far talked about this in terms of the local storage,
which is fine but at some point we want to backup, we want to share our work with other people,
etc. So, this is where the public GitHub page comes in! Here's my
page! Do follow me on GitHub, then you can see all the stuff I produce!
So, what you're going to want to do on GitHub, to get yourself a remote repository, is consider
firstly whether you're just going to post as yourself or whether you are
going to setup an organization. So, I've got it organized into
an organization per course. You may want to do the same thing. You may want to setup
a Unreal course organization or something like that, for yourself. That just
allows you to group a bunch of repositories together, so if
I look at my Unreal course organization, it has one
repository for each section, and then,
the repository, like Building Escape, when we go into it has the source code
and some description, which we'll talk about in a minute, but it also has all forty-six
commits which relate to the lectures that I produced.
OK, so you might want to do something very similar. It's up to you exactly when you commit,
but I'm suggesting you do it after each video, just to get in the habit.
So, if you're already used to SourceControl and Git and you know how this website
works, you probably just want to skip straight onto the next video. All I'm going to be
doing is creating a repo here on GitHub. I'm going to use the
default .gitignore that GitHub provides for Unreal, and I'm going to write a brief
readme.md file in markdown. So, that's just to let you know
what I'll be doing. So, firstly we need to make sure we're actually signed
in. So, at this point, I'm not signed in at the top-right. I've got the option to sign
in. There we go! Done! And then, I'm going to create myself
a new repository, either against my user or in my case against
an organization called Unreal Course. Note the naming
convention. I'm going to use a very consistent naming, 04_
BAttleTank. OK
great! So, we're going to say a brief description. "An open-world
head-to-head tank fight
with simple AI, terrain,
and advanced control
system
in Unreal 4. OK great! It's going to be public! You can't
make it private without paying. OK, now I am going to initialize
the project with a readme file, and it's a readme.md which is markdown.
In the first slide of this video, there is a link to
the markdown cheat sheet, or to be honest, just do a Google search for markdown
cheat sheet or syntax.
And even if you don't spell it right, you'll get something like this daring fire ball
one, and it'll tell you how markdown works. It's actually very simple. It's a way of writing
HTML without writing HTML, basically. This was written by a blogger.
It's a very cool idea! So, we're going to initialize with a readme. It lets other people know what your repository
is about, when they get to the webpage. And we're also going to use now, this time, now that you've seen how
a .gitIgnore is built up, why give ourselves the pain of building it
up from scratch? Why don't we just type Unreal in here,
and realize that people have already made one and it's going to be good enough.
License, it's up to you if you put a license in. I'm going to leave no license here.
And let's click Create Repository!
Great! So, there we go, we have Battle Tank now! "An open-world head-to-head tank fight"
game, a simple AI. So, this is the beginning of my readme.md, but it's a bit
rubbish. So, one of the first things I'm going to want to do here is
to edit this readme. You can click on it and you can click the little Edit  This File.
Then, you can go in and you can see what it's doing. Hash is
the level 1 heading. OK, so BattleTank. Now, rather than me building
this from scratch, what I'm going to do is I'm going to open up a
previous repository, I'm going to go into its readme file,
edit this, and this is the markdown code
for it. I'm going to take all of this stuff here, including the first
lecture, and right
up to the third lecture, because most of that's going to be reused. Note, some of the things
in here. You've got links that are done like this in square brackets, then in circular
brackets the link. It's all in the cheat sheets. Stars, do a bullet
list, double hashes level two heading, single hashes level one heading
OK. So, let's just paste that in
and make sure all of this works OK.
OK, so Intro Notes and Section Assets is
BE01. And it's not BE anymore, I'm using a code which
is BT, Battle Tank. Hey, there are my initials, BT!
And the second one was Game Design Document, and I'll literate the rest later.
So, by editing this game design document, I'm actually
making a commit here. So, what I'm actually going to do first is
commit the first video I made, which is that one there, and I'm just going to call it...
What I do for my commits is, I actually call them the name of the lecture,
and normally I put in the description something about it, but I'm just going to do this
for now. So, by editing your readme you're making a commit,
alright. Now, look how that's formatted! The stars became this
line, the links all work, etc.
Alright, so have a play with markdown, write yourself a little primer
for your repository. Now, if I go back and look at Battle Tank now,
I can see I've got two commits, an initial commit, and I've got BTO1 Intro,
Notes & aection Assets. Alright, so the second
video that I made was called something else. It was the
GD one. So, I could edit the markdown file again and recommit. This
is how I commit files where there's actually been no code
changes. So, let me just do that really
quickly. 04_Battle Tank, README.md,
edit it, put in the other video which is star,
after a bullet point, BT02 for Battle Tank video 2, Game
Design Document
(GDD). OK, and then let's just
commit this as exactly that name. And the reason is, I want
to give you a bit of a repository to pull down to your local machine, alright.
So now, we've got two commits, two edits to this. The page is updated,
this thing at the bottom appears, that we've just put in, but if we were to look at our
Battle Tank 3 Commits, you can see it's
starting to come together. Cool, so we have a remote repository now! This is the point,
this is where we've got to. So, how do we get this into our SourceTree? We go to
the File, and then New, and then clone stroke new. That's where we want to
go, and we're going to clone. Now, I have already
connected my SourceTree, as you already have, to your GitHub, so when you click on the little world
icon here, Browse Hosted Projects, you'll get a list come up. Now, I could
search for "battle", and of all my things, I should get Battle Tank.
Cool! And I can literally just say Clone now!
As simple as that! And what that's going to do is, it's going to pull down the contents of that very small repo
that only contains that readme file and the .gitignore, and it's
going to pop it over here. I've got a bookmark. If I look at the master branch,
which I can see that I've got a readme file, and I can see the historical
changes there. I've got a .gitignore that's got a lot more in it than before, which we've taken from
the GitHub website
and that's it! We're pretty much ready to go! In fact, I'm at a stage now where I'm ready to commit
the next video. I could edit the readme file locally, of course,
by just double-clicking it. I could commit this video, which is BT03
Setting Up a GitHub
"Repo". And that's all I've done in this
video, I haven't really made any code changes. So, if I save that readme file,
then of course, I'll see some uncommitted changes here
saying that I've done this. And then, I can commit that
and we're back to our familiar workflow, which works the other way around,
of course, which is that we go from our local to
the web, but you haven't see me do that yet. So, what we've done previously
is, we've given a commit a name and we've committed like this, and it
arrives here right. Now, you have a checkbox, Show Remote Branches. In the Mac it's
the dropdown. You can see that the master, which we're on
locally, is here, but the origin master and by default the GitHub repository
is called origin, is one behind, and that's why the push has
one symbol. It's saying that what you have locally is one behind what is
on the web. So, you can click Push, push the local
master to the remote master, and OK. And what that's
going to do is just transmit that very simple change, that I'm only doing for
demonstration purposes, up to the web. If we now go back to the GitHub website and refresh,
you can see that we will, in a moment, have BT03. You see!
So that's it, it's now on the web! This link here,
04_BattleTank is the URL that you could share with somebody, and they can get
hold of all our source and they can look up different branches if you set them up
and they can look at all your commits and get to your project at any point in
history. So, that's what I want your challenge to be. I want you to setup your own remote repo
on GitHub or BitBucket. Write your first readme.md.
Why not include your GDD in there, for example?
And then, share the repo link with us, so that we can all have a look at your project as
it progresses. Once you've shared that link once, it'll stay up to date as you push to the web.
Pretty cool, hey! And I've already done that, so this is just your challenge
to get it done for yourself, and I look forward to seeing you in the next video!